METHODS
	MMVEC (Ref) was used to determine the conditional probabilities of
coocurance between microbes and metabolites. MMVEC takes the relative
abundance matrices of microbes and metabolites across a shared set of samples
and uses a nerual networking approach to determine the conditional probabilty
of observing all metabolites based on the observed occurance of each
microbe. The stated goal of MMVEC is to predict metabolite abundances based on
the presence of a single microbial taxon. This approach avoids some of the
pitfalls of traditional correlation methods, including Pearson and Spearman
correlations. Such analyses are generally inappropriate for analysing compositional data
and distinct data types, both of which pertain when comparing metabolomics and
microbial metabarcoding data. In accordance with the recommended use of MMVEC, we
filtered abundance data to ensure that sufficient observations were provided for coocurance
analysis. Metabolite input data was limited to features that
occured in at least 10(?) samples and had a minimum relative abundance of #.
Microbial data was limited to taxa occuring at a minimum relative abundance of # in at
least # samples and a minimum single abundance of # in one sample. A total of
85 samples were considered, which included all collected samples for which both metabolomics and 16S metabarcoding data were available. MMVEC was run with the following parameters: learning rate of 1e3, 30 samples used for testing examples, 200 epochs, a batch size of 5, and 3 latent dimensions.  
	MMVEC has several built in methods for visualizing microbe and metabolite
co-occurance patterns. These plots produce ordinations (e.g. PCA) or
hierarchical clusters (e.g. biclusters).The underlying data used to organize these plots
are distance matrices based on MMVEC probability
scores. However, conditional probability scores can also be
used to identify co-occurance patterns in the more structured context of microbial
and chemical relatedness. This approach has the potential to reveal patterns in microbe-metabolite
co-occurance across a microbial gene phylogeny and a tree of chemical relatedness based on spectral
data. To this end, a bicluster plot of MMVEC scores was assembled in R using the package
complexHeatmap (REFs, also dendextend, parallel, phylogram). For the plot,
only metabolites that had a median probability greater than or equal to 2 were
retained. Microbial taxa were organized phylogenetically using a 16S tree
assembled with FastTree(Ref). Metabolites were organized by 
structural similarity using the tree output from Qemistree (Ref). Metabolite
probability scores were standardized for each metabolite through z-score
transformation to better visualize the varying probabilty of each metabolite
associating with microbes across the phylognetic tree. Each cell in the
bicluster was filled if the z-scored probability was greater than one,
indicating a co-occurance probability at least one standard deviation higher
than the mean for that metabolite. In our study, sample were collected from
distinct host organisms that were likely to produce a high proportion of the observed
metabolites. To visualize the impact of host organisms on
cooccurance patterns, filled cells were colored based on proportional
abundance of microbes and metabolites within the different hosts. If both the
metabolite and microbe were proportionally most abundant in the same host
organism, the cell was colored by that sample type. Conversely, if the microbe and
metabolite were proportionally most abundant in different sample types, the
filled cell was colored gray and labeled "NS" for 'not same'. This allowed for
the visual identification of correlation patterns between microbes and
metabolites that were likely the result of coenrichment in a host versus correlation patterns that were likely
occuring independent of from host type. For greater context, the microbial
phylogeny was annotated with taxonomic classifications at the levels of order
and class. The metabolomic tree was annotated by chemical class and network
ID. 
 
RESULTS:
	The bicluster plot showing high co-occurance probabilites (Fig #) structured by microbial 16S phylogeny and
chemical relatedness (Qemistree) revealed striking patterns in co-occurance
in both microbial taxonomic groups and in groups of structurally related metabolites.
Unsurprisingly, metabolites and microbes that had a high co-occurance
probabilities were frequently found associating with the same host organism. Out
of the total N positive co-occurance relationships that were identified (>2 raw MMVEC, >1 SD
z-scored mmvec), X showed a pattern where microbe and metabolite most abundant
in the same sample type, while Y showed a pattern where microbe and metabolite were most abundant in different sample types.
Some microbial taxonomic groups were visibly enriched in a particular host
type. Members of the order Chitinophagales were highly abundant in algae and
tended to co-occur with metabolites that were also abundant in algae.
Notably, these Chitiniphagales also co-occured with a number of metabolites that were found
across multiple sample types. Members of the order Rhizobiales were
highly abundant in Coral and CCA samples and co-occured with metabolites that
were abundant in the same. However, closely related taxa in the order Rhodobacterales clearly showed the
opposite pattern, being most abundant in algae. From the metabolomics perspective, metabolites in
network Z (componentindex = 186), classfied as Coumarins and derivatives, were highly abundant in 
CCA and coral and co-occured with a diverse set of taxa that were present in
those host organisms. Network X (component index = 118) was not highly
abundant in any particular host type, but co-occured most frequently with
microbes that were abundant in algae. 

 
DISCUSSION:
	MMVEC probabilty scores confirmed expected co-occurance relationships between
microbes, metabolites, and host organisms. Microbes and metabolites that had
high co-occurance probabilitestended to occur at high abundance in the
same host organisms. Furthermore, several microbial orders were identified
that co-occured with specific networks of metabolites within specific hosts.
These results hint at complex metabolic linkages between host organisms and
microorganisms in nearshore marine systems. For highly complex organisms, such
as CCA and coral, the line between host and microbiome is blurry. With these
results can be used to design trageted experiments to determine whether hosts or microbes
are the source of these metabolites.
	Co-occurance patterns that did not correspond to high proportional
abundances in a given host organism were not as common. However, these
non-host specific co-occurance relationships are of great interest. These
'true correlations' indicate a co-occurance relationship between metabolites
and microbes that is independent from the host organism. MMVEC probabilities
are especially suited to identifying these TRUE CORRELATIONS because
they do  not require linear relationships between microbial and metabolite
abundances in order to identify co-occurance. This allows us to identify co-occurance patterns that are not revealed by simple
regression and would otherwise be counfounded by changes in proportional
abundance between sample types.


MMVEC Notes
Limitations of other techniques:
- Traditional correlation techniques have high false positivity rate
- Techniques are invalid when correlating disparate data types
- CCA,PLS, Network models, Factor models = difficult to interpret, not on the
  individual metabolite/microbe scale
- Pearson/Spearman assume independence btwn interactions -> lots of pairwise
  comps
MMVEC's solve:
- conditional probability of observing all metabolites given that a microbe was
observed
- identify most likely metabolite microbe interactions
- predicts entire metabolite profile based on a single microbe
- uses interative training to learn these probabilities
- results are rankable
Comparisons:
-MMVEC and Spec-esi only methods to outperform random chance in correctly
selecting true positive correlations.
- higher precision + recall than other methods
- consistent for absolute and relative abundance
- zero log conditional probability indicates the mean metabolite probability
  since all probabilities are mean centered
Biocrust wetting
- MMVEC can detect co-occurance in relative abundance data, where total
  biomass can mask positive correlations.
- MMVEC is better at detecting true positives in these cases
- Not necessarily a linear relationship between RA of metabolite and microbe,
  but still gets a high conditional probability
